National Museum of the American Indian in New York to Inaugurate a Permanent, Hemispheric Survey of Native American Art 

Media Only
Joshua A. Stevens
(212) 514-3823
stevensja@si.edu

A spectacular, permanent exhibition of almost 700 works of Native art from throughout North, Central and South America is now open at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of the American Indian in New York, the George Gustav Heye Center. Organized by geographic regions, “Infinity of Nations: Art and History in 
 Tom Pnini: Two Figures in a Field
January 10 – February 22, 2020
Opening Reception: Friday, January 10, 6–8pm
Artist Talk: Saturday, February 8, 2:30pm

Lesley Heller is pleased to present Two Figures in a Field, an experiential installation by the New York based, Israeli-born artist Tom Pnini. In this exhibition, Pnini—known predominantly for his films—has constructed an interactive installation comprised of two main elements The Set and The Vinyl Album, where the audience becomes an activ
 A quiet man who supported himself doing odd jobs such as street vendor, jewelry designer, photography printer, and cab driver, Bronx native Alvin Baltrop left an important body of work after his untimely death in 2004 that only now is garnering the serious attention it deserves. Like the startling images of Peter Moore, Robert Mapplethorpe, Peter Hujar, and Gordon Matta-Clark, the photographs of Alvin Baltrop memorialize New York City at a breaking-point moment amid ruin and chaos.

 

As su
 Born and raised in Detroit, educated and discovered in New York, Anna Sui reinvented pop culture fashion with her signature rock-and-roll romantic label in the 1990s and has remained a design icon ever since. Beginning with her premiere catwalk show in 1991, Sui has shaped not only the garments, textiles, accessories, cosmetics, and interiors that comprise her design universe, but also the course of fashion history by popularizing the boutique fashion look. Sui’s unique approach to creating narr
 How do I meet the gaze of another matter-machine?

There and here borders cut between different ways of being
a life form. I, with my silhouette: without becoming a tree
I dare to rest here beneath the tree. This endless faith in rims,
edges, cutting points and the loyalty of objects. With an
endless trust in the silhouettes, in that the straps and
cuts, the stitches will hold things in place.

Out of a trust in matter.

In this exact light. In this temporarily prevailing landscape.

 The Milton Resnick and Pat Passlof Foundation is proud to present "Pat Passlof: The Brush Is the Finger of the Brain," a survey exhibition of the paintings of Pat Passlof (1928-2011), on view October 11, 2019 - April 12, 2020. Spanning a period of six decades, the exhibition is organized by independent curator and critic Karen Wilkin and will be accompanied by a full-color catalogue featuring essays by Wilkin and Mark di Suvero. A number of events will be presented during the exhibition includin
 Sur moderno: Journeys of Abstraction—The Patricia Phelps de Cisneros Gift is drawn primarily from the paintings, sculptures, and works on paper donated to the Museum by the Colección Patricia Phelps de Cisneros. This extraordinarily comprehensive collection provides the foundation for a journey through the history of abstract and concrete art from South America at mid-century. The exhibition explores the transformative power of abstraction in Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina, and Uruguay, focusing o
 STERLING CRISPIN || Future Tense
January 25 - March 23, 2020

False Flag is proud to present Future Tense – an exhibition of recent work by Sterling Crispin.

Crispin runs up against the edge of humanity – or at least humanity as we presently perceive it. His creations mine the artifacts and reconfigured detritus of larger technological systems. Some already exist, while others are likely to exist in the near future: emotional robotics, computational engineering, behemoth venture-capital fi
 This fall, MoMA PS1 will present a large-scale group exhibition examining the legacies of American-led military engagement in Iraq beginning with the Gulf War in 1991. Through more than 250 works, the exhibition explores the effects of these wars on artists based in Iraq and its diasporas, as well as those responding to the war from the West. Featuring the work of over 75 artists including Afifa Aleiby, Dia Azzawi, Thuraya al-Baqsami, Paul Chan, Harun Farocki, Tarek Al-Ghoussein, Guerrilla Girls
 Shannon Cartier Lucy’s paintings are loquacious despite seeming unassuming. They thrust you towards the edge of a precipice right where your inhibitions end and your subconscious begins. Suddenly, you find yourself in the entrails of a complex labyrinth where the walls are moving, reconfiguring the very space you’re walking through. Each painting is a clue in a grander narrative arc, but there is neither a linear sequence to the story, nor is there a plot. Only a feeling of uprootedness. Are you
 Vito Schnabel Gallery is pleased to announce its collaboration with New York-based Italian and American artist Francesco Clemente, presenting a pair of parallel solo exhibitions in the United States and Switzerland. Debuting new paintings and frescoes, both shows will present boldly expressive, large-scale works that comprise a meditation upon the restless physical and spiritual journey that has shaped the course of the artist’s acclaimed four-decade career. Francesco Clemente: India will be on 
 Hollis Taggart to Open Solo Exhibition of New Work 
By New York-based Artist Kenichi Hoshine 

On View January 9 – February 15, 2020
Opening Reception January 9, 6:00 – 8:00 PM

On January 9, Hollis Taggart will open Kenichi Hoshine: The Magician and The Thief, a solo exhibition of the New York-based artist’s work. Inspired by a wide range of subjects—from film and television, to theatrical sets, to found imagery—Hoshine’s painting practice is grounded in the experiences of his daily life.
 One time on a whim, without really understanding what I was doing, I bought a ticket for the Ferris wheel and let it hoist me up above the town. And I just stared at the floor of the cabin.
– Raud, Rein. The Brother (Trans. Cullen, Adam.). Rochester, NY: Open Letter Books, 2016.

Nadia Belerique (b. 1982, Canada) received her BFA from York University, Toronto, in 2005 and her MFA from University of Guelph in 2012. Solo exhibitions: Daniel Faria Gallery, Toronto; Grazer Kunstverein, Graz, Aust
 Zilia Sánchez: Soy Isla (I Am an Island)is the first museum retrospective of the prolific, innovative, and yet largely unknown artist Zilia Sánchez (b. 1926, Havana – lives and works in San Juan). The exhibition features over 40 works from the early 1950s to the present, including paintings, works on paper, shaped canvases, sculptural pieces, graphic illustrations, and ephemera. The retrospective traces Sánchez’s artistic journey from her early days in Cuba to her extended travels in Europe in t
 An exhibition generated from an OPEN CALL of artists holding or applying for an O-1 Artist Visa

October 16, 2019 - February 29, 2020

FEATURING:
Sarah Mihara Creagen, Canada
Woomin Kim, South Korea
Firoz Mahmud, Bangladesh
Yue Nakayama, Japan
Anna Parisi, Brazil
Shimpei Shirafuji, Japan
Catalina Tuca, Chile
Ramyar Vala, Iran
                                                                                                                                                               
 Guided by an animal magnetism, the naturalist fuses together with the landscape. The sun leaves a mark on their forehead and blinds their sight. It scorches the leaf that it touches, it ignites the stone, and the sea flattens because of the weight of the light.
Biology is about the mystery of a world without language. In its operation, it either re-designs it, or it is absorbed by this world.
Stone view is a visual system that presents what has been lived with the sea,
with the stone, with th
 New York, NY — SEIZAN Gallery is pleased to present Tiny Night, Tiny Light, a solo exhibition of Eri Iwasaki. Having worked with the artist for over twenty years on a number of high-profile exhibitions and projects including the 2019 iteration of Asia Week New York, SEIZAN Gallery is thrilled to be showcasing Iwasaki in her first New York solo exhibition. Tiny Night, Tiny Light will bring together a selection of Eri Iwasaki’s iconic female portraits from the past ten years and explore the artist
 Agnes Denes rose to international attention in the 1960s and 1970s as a leading figure in conceptual, environmental, and ecological art. A pioneer of several art movements, she creates work in a broad range of media, utilizing various disciplines—science, philosophy, linguistics, ecology, psychology—to analyze, document, and ultimately aid humanity. Denes turns her analysis into beautiful, sensual visual forms, poetry, and a philosophy that she has developed over the course of her career.

Thi
 The opening reception for Nicolas Party: Pastel will be held Friday, October 11, 6-8pm.

The FLAG Art Foundation is pleased to present a two-floor exhibition by Nicolas Party, on view October 10, 2019-February 15, 2020. Conceived as a complete artwork, Party transforms FLAG into a sumptuously colored environment for a suite of Rococo-inspired wall murals, in the fragile and ultimately temporal medium of soft pastel. The four murals serve as a foil to, and occasional backdrop for, a selection o
 Sikkema Jenkins & Co. is pleased to present On The Ground, an exhibition of recent paintings by Josephine Halvorson. On view January 23 through February 29, 2020, this is Halvorson’s fifth solo show at the gallery. On The Ground, also the title of her essay in Art In America (June/July 2018), continues Halvorson’s exploration of the ground—as a motif, material, and metaphor. Each painting registers an area of ground through Halvorson’s close observation and pictorial description, while its accom
 ANNE-CHARLOTTE FINEL
Jacklighting
JANUARY 17 - FEBRUARY 23, 2020
OPENING ON FRIDAY, JANUARY 17th, 6:30-9:30PM

The Chimney is pleased to present Jacklighting, the first solo exhibition of French artist Anne-Charlotte Finel in the United States. Jacklighting refers to the nocturnal hunting practice of shining bright lights into a dark field in order to momentarily blind and stun animals. As if operating with a similar unnatural lighting system, the artist records transitory and ambiguous spa
 Luis Frangella (1944-1990) was a figurative, postmodern Argentine painter and sculptor with a long-standing relationship with Hal Bromm Gallery. Frangella earned a master's degree in architecture at the University of Buenos Aires in 1972 before attending the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1973. In 1976, he moved to New York City where he originally settled on Elk Street near Manhattan’s City Hall.  Nearby he painted massive “street” murals on construction site walls, abandoned Hudson R
 The exhibition will be on view at 88 Essex Street from January 10, 2020, through February 16, 2020.  An opening reception will be held in the gallery on January 10 from 6 to 8 pm.
 
Cousin Table is a show of new sculptural works by Joseph Buckley. These works take as their starting points a diverse array of topics and concerns: the temperature of our politics, sleep paralysis, & fantasies of escapism.
 
Joseph Buckley is a British artist currently residing and working in Brooklyn, New York. 
 Jack Barrett is pleased to present Tensions, Quay Quinn Wolf’s second solo show and fifth presentation with the gallery. 
 
On June 25th, 2018 at 11:53 PM, a car at an intersection in downtown Brooklyn struck Quay Quinn Wolf and his partner. The resulting bodily injuries were minor; they were dismissed from the hospital with only small cuts and bruises, yet the psychological impact of the incident proved to be far greater. 

The incident is classified as a hate crime. The couple was intentio
 Kasmin is proud to present a new exhibition of three monumental sculptures by Robert Indiana (1928-2018) exhibited on the gallery’s rooftop sculpture garden, on view from The High Line with access at 28th Street. This is the first time the three works have been shown together, and the first significant exhibition of Indiana’s sculpture since 2018’s Robert Indiana: A Sculpture Retrospective at Albright-Knox, Buffalo, NY. An additional work will accompany the rooftop exhibition in High Line Nine, 
 Nicelle Beauchene Gallery is pleased to present Semper Virens, the gallery’s second solo exhibition with San Antonio-based artist Daniel Rios Rodriguez.

In his latest body of work, Rodriguez’s intimate assemblage paintings incorporate the iconography of life cycles: the sun, the moon, the spiral, the snake. The artist layers impastoed oil paint, river rocks, wire, wood, and rope to build up each surface, creating topographical pictorial fields. In many works, bold colors, patterns, and abstra
 David Zwirner is pleased to present work by American artist Noah Davis (1983–2015), organized by Helen Molesworth. On view at the gallery’s 533 West 19th Street location in New York, the exhibition will provide an overview of Davis’s brief but expansive career.
 

Davis’s work is notable for its seemingly uncomplicated relationship between, on the one hand, his lush, sensual, figurative paintings and, on the other hand, an ambitious social practice project called the Underground Museum, a bla
 In THE VIEW FROM NOWHERE, Colombian artist Juan Cortes explores the connection between art, science, and educational processes to visually translate our simple understanding of complex phenomena in the universe through sound, video and sculptural installations. This marks his first solo exhibition with Nohra Haime Gallery.

The View from Nowhere references American philosopher Thomas Nagel’s idea that a united and global view of the world is impossible, that essentially, our view always starts
 Acceleration is accelerating. We are faster, stronger, better. We are digital. We are artificial. We are intelligent. We don’t have enough space but we have enough experience. We are connected, we are loud, we are confident. We have all the info we need.  We have time. We manipulate time. We know the past, we know the future. We are the future, but somehow, we can’t even predict the weather. If the world has become wretched and damaged, if humanity is futile, “how shall we dress for the occasion
 Located at 1040 Grand Concourse, Bronx, New York 10456

Widely regarded as one of the most significant documentarians of street art, Henry Chalfant has produced a voluminous body documenting the emergence of the trend since its early days in the Bronx, following its transformation into the international phenomenon it is today.

Chalfant’s photographs are a work of visual anthropology and one of the seminal documents of American popular culture in the late twentieth century. Chalfant became i
  THE WALLACH ART GALLERY AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESENTS
WAITING FOR OMAR GATLATO: A SURVEY OF CONTEMPORARY ART
 FROM ALGERIA AND ITS DIASPORA

Exhibition Will Be on View at the Wallach October 26, 2019 - March 15, 2020
 
NEW YORK, October 4, 2019 – Columbia University’s Wallach Art Gallery will present Waiting for Omar Gatlato: A Survey of Contemporary Art from Algeria and Its Diaspora, on view from October 26, 2019 through March 15, 2020. The exhibition, an expansive examination of Alger
 MIYAKO YOSHINAGA is honored to present The Legacy of ISSEI SUDA (1940-2019): Human Memory, the first posthumous exhibition in the United States of renowned Japanese photographer Issei Suda who passed away in early 2019. This is the gallery’s second exhibition of the artist, following the 2014 exhibition “Life in Flower: 1971-1979.” The exhibition is from January 17 to February 29, 2020. 

Issei Suda (b. 1940 – d. 2019) began his long and celebrated career in 1967 as a stage photographer of ava
 Children’s Museum of the Arts is pleased to present Home Sweet Home: Is a Home a Sanctuary?, a group exhibition featuring Emilie Clark, Tom Fruin, Todd Hido, Lucia Hierro, Ann Toebbe, Shinique Smith, and Letha Wilson, on view from December 19, 2019 — May 3, 2020 in the Cynthia C. Wainwright Gallery.

Is a home a sanctuary? Throughout history, we have built shelters to protect from the elements, intruders, and animals of prey, but at a certain point, people wanted more than just a hideout or sh
 Special Special is pleased to announce Tie Me Up! Lock Me
Down!, a group exhibition curated by Banyi Huang and Kristen
Lee on view in East Village November 14, 2019 – February 23, 2020. The show tells a story of love, heartbreak, and reconciliation. Inspired by the camp of anime, exaggerated narratives in East Asian soap operas, and the baroque, it is an exercise in melodrama.

Tie Me Up! Lock Me Down! features a selection of bodily adornments in the broader sense, including jewelry, garment
 Ulterior is pleased to present the second solo exhibition at the gallery of all new work by the artist duo, Camel Collective. Camel Collective is comprised of Anthony Graves and Carla Herrera-Prats. Carla Herrera-Prats passed away in December 2019 after a two-year fight against cancer.

To describe this new exhibition, Anthony Graves writes:

"One year ago this February Carla and I were discussing the declaration of a state of emergency at the Mexico–US border as ICE and US Border Patrol age
 Walter Scott’s new body of work The Pathos of Mandy focuses on a fictional artist named Mandy. The exhibition presents a video and accompanying installation which comment on alienation, the myth versus reality of the artist figure, and self-representation. Dealing with the loss of legal ownership of a character he invented at the axis of his work, Mandy is portrayed as a solipsistic artist, who becomes increasingly desperate to piece together who he is—both personally and artistically—now that t
 Cristin Tierney Gallery is pleased to present Melanie Baker: The Optimates, the artist’s first New York solo exhibition in nearly a decade. It opens on Friday, January 10th with a reception from 6:00 to 8:00 pm, and continues through Saturday, February 22nd. The artist will be present at the opening.

The Optimates presents three distinct scenes: a person stands at a podium; a man, seen from behind, speaks to someone unknown; and a group of men huddle in conversation at a window. The works are
 Fridman Gallery is honored to present "Light Shop", Jan Tichy’s second solo exhibition with the gallery. "Light Shop" is an explorative study of light — its collection and dissemination, formation and commodification — taking place in the gradually fading Bowery Lighting District. Reflecting on the disappearance of the neighborhood lighting stores, the exhibition is in dialogue with the works of the photographer Berenice Abbott: "Changing New York" (1937) — a documentation of a city in transform
 MILES MCENERY GALLERY is delighted to present “The Responsive Eye Revisited: Then, Now, and In-Between.” The exhibition will open 14 January at 520 West 21st Street and will remain on view through 15 February 2020. A fully illustrated publication featuring an essay by David Pagel accompanies the exhibition. Pagel is an art critic who writes regularly for the Los Angeles Times as well as a Professor of Art Theory at Claremont Graduate University and an adjunct curator at the Parrish Art Museum. 
 Garth Greenan Gallery is pleased to announce Gladys Nilsson: Recent Paintings, an exhibition of paintings and works on paper at 545 West 20th Street. Opening on Thursday, January 30, 2020, the exhibition will feature a selection of the artist’s large-scale, densely layered, and intricately detailed paintings from 2017 to 2019. Nilsson’s recent works are her first on canvas since the early 1990s, and her largest since the 1970s.  

Like the meticulously constructed watercolors and collages for 
 Gladstone Gallery is pleased to present an exhibition of paintings by Salvo (1947 – 2015). Focusing on the artist’s compositions of landscapes and cities, this show surveys more than 30 years of Salvo’s artistic practice and highlights his early conceptual art and his astounding aptitude for portraying the complexities of light and the passage of time. Organized in collaboration with Archivio Salvo, the works in this show solidify Salvo’s singular and ever explorative approach to artmaking and h
 We are pleased to announce the participation of
JoAnne Artman Gallery
At Affordable Art Fair, New York
  

BOOTH #C11
Metropolitan Pavilion | New York City
125 West 18th Street (Between 6th and 7th Avenues)

Wednesday, March 25th – Sunday, March 29th, 2020
VIP PREVIEW: Wednesday, March 25th, 2020
  
Presenting Works By:
AMERICA MARTIN, ANJA VAN HERLE, ANNA KINCAIDE, BROOKE SHADEN, ELLEN VON WIEGAND, GREG MILLER, JOHN “CRASH” MATOS, LISA BARTLESON, MARY FINLAYSON + RYAN MULFORD

We
 INTERNATIONAL PRINT CENTER NEW YORK (IPCNY) is pleased to present Homebody: New Prints 2020/Winter, an exhibition featuring 31 artists from Australia, Canada, Portugal, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and the United States whose work explores relationships between personal and domestic structures. IPCNY’s New Prints Program is a biannual, juried open call for prints and print-based work that captures current voices and issues in contemporary printmaking.

Throughout the jurying process, Ariana Ba
 The subway as a subject has captured the artist’s imagination since its beginnings. A symbol of modern progress, the subway is a great unifier; the ultimate democracy where people from different boroughs, classes, races, and ethnicities come together for the same fare and experience.

The exhibition showcases an array of artists’ narrative interpretations over the last century and demonstrates how the subway exemplifies the diversity and community that defines New York as a city.  

The subw
 David Zwirner is pleased to present Doppelgänger, a video installation by Stan Douglas, on view at the gallery’s 537 West 20th Street location in New York. Debuted at the 2019 Venice Biennale, May You Live in Interesting Times, this ambitious work will be exhibited for the first time in the United States. Doppelgänger will concurrently be on view on at Victoria Miro, London, opening on January 31.

Since the late 1980s, Douglas has created films and photographs—and more recently theater produc
 On View: February 13, 2020 – May 21, 2020
Location: SACI NY Gallery, 454 W 19th St, New York, NY 10011


A series of photographic images paired with written sounds (phonetics), which aims to visually represent the dislocated joint that exists between language and media; An indirect correspondence between symbols and sounds, and sounds and ideas. 

This series of work, made over three years from 2017-2019, engages in a re-imagining of written pronunciations, as sounds, disassociated from th
 Wet Logic, a collaborative exhibition by Sarah Rothberg and Marina Zurkow, presents a model of the world organized according to a wet, oceanic ideology rather than a dry, land-based paradigm. This is a world that manifests the circuitous nature of time, the enmeshment of humans to the planet, and the shifting boundaries of earthly spaces. Rothberg and Zurkow present a series of systems that further human connection to oceans by way of action and imagination.

Accretions is a series of silkscre
 Jack Shainman Gallery is pleased to present an insightful exhibition of Andy Warhol’s photographs, which span three decades of the artist’s creative process. This exhibition creates a unique opportunity for viewers to appreciate this lesser known element of Warhol’s practice, the subjects and techniques of which shed new light on Warhol’s process and personal life. 
 

Warhol’s photographic oeuvre remains one of the most central and enduring aspects of his creative process. Initially inspired
 I’LL TAKE YOU THERE
Gary Cruz
The Olympia Project
255 McKibbin Lofts
January 10 - March 10, 2020
Opening Reception: January 10, 2020, 6-9pm

Curated by Marian Casey

Texan-born, New York-based artist Gary Cruz explores the potential for almost painterly abstraction in iPhone shot and edited works, creating compelling portraits of queer space across 30 banners playfully ensconced in aluminum-clad walls. &#8203;I’ll Take You There documents the interiors of gay bars he’s visited across th
 NEW YORK - MILES MCENERY GALLERY is pleased to announce an exhibition of recent paintings by Michael Reafsnyder. The exhibition will open 9 January at 525 West 22nd Street and will remain on view through 15 February 2020. A public opening reception for the artist will be held on 9 January from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. A fully illustrated catalogue with an essay by art historian Michael Schreyach accompanies the exhibition.

Michael Reafsnyder’s abstract paintings are widely appreciated for their
 Gagosian is pleased to present David Reed’s first exhibition of new work with the gallery, following Painting Paintings (David Reed) 1975, a presentation of his early brushmark paintings curated by Katy Siegel and Christopher Wool at Gagosian New York in 2017.

Since the outset of his career, Reed’s central preoccupation has been to challenge and reinvent how to make a painting. Consistently, his paintings present a compelling tension between the gestural and the impersonal; in recent times th
 Petzel Gallery is pleased to present Waiting for the Next Nirvana, an exhibition of new paintings by Canada-born, Los Angeles-based artist Jon Pylypchuk. The show will be on view from January 9 to February 29, 2020 and marks Pylypchuk’s first solo exhibition at the gallery’s Chelsea location in nine years.

An expression and result of Pylypchuk’s past and current years as a rock musician (he is a founder of KISK, the KISS cover band) and as an artist, the paintings featured in Waiting for the 
 Marianne Boesky Gallery is pleased to present Xenia: Crossroads in Portrait Painting, an exhibition that explores the resurgence of portraiture as an incisive platform through which to consider the nature and meaning of identity. As our globalized society becomes increasingly marked by emigration, resettlement, and technological interconnectedness, so too have notions of the self become exponentially fractured and complex. Through the work of seventeen artists, Xenia: Crossroads in Portrait Pain
 Jack Shainman Gallery is pleased to present an insightful exhibition of Andy Warhol’s photographs, which span three decades of the artist’s creative process. This exhibition creates a unique opportunity for viewers to appreciate this lesser known element of Warhol’s practice, the subjects and techniques of which shed new light on Warhol’s process and personal life. 
 

Warhol’s photographic oeuvre remains one of the most central and enduring aspects of his creative process. Initially inspired
 Winston Wächter Fine Art, New York is pleased to announce Garden Riot, an exhibition of new, large-scale encaustic paintings by Betsy Eby. Musical lyricism and the wildness of nature inspire these vibrant paintings, which embrace sensuality and earthly delights as a counterbalance in an increasingly informational age.

Garden Riot reveals a new boldness in color in Eby’s work, as she finds herself re-engaging with the core tenets of her practice. An accomplished classical pianist, Eby has alwa
 Andrew Edlin Gallery is pleased to present concurrent solo exhibitions for Janet Sobel (1893-1968) and Pearl Blauvelt (1893-1987), two female self-taught artists born in the same year. Though both women were making art in the 1940s, they came from vastly different backgrounds and achieved art world recognition in the opposite manner. Sobel received critical attention during her lifetime at the epicenter of New York cultural circles, while Blauvelt created in complete anonymity, her drawings only
 Connie Fu’s central artistic drive is characterized by her continued interest in connecting many modes of making and thinking. Using music, weaving, dance, puppetry and painting, the artist creates objects, performances, and text that interact within her installations. This way of integrating what may seem eclectic into a single, whole unit mirrors the artist’s concern with the multiplicity of the self and the capacity of humans to reach always farther into the unknown.  

In the FiveMyles Plu
 Steve Parker: Futurist Listening
Curated by Marcela Guerrero
January 9 – February 12, 2020
 
Opening Reception: Thursday, January 9, 6-8PM

Improvisational Brass Performance with Steve Parker, David Byrd-Marrow, and Sam Kulik: Friday, January 10, 7-8:30PM

CUE Art Foundation is pleased to present Futurist Listening, Steve Parker’s first solo exhibition in New York City, curated by Marcela Guerrero. This series of work takes the form of sonic headwear, acoustic sculptures built from brass
 Rotation is a form of symmetry. The most common forms of symmetry are reflection, which most people think of as bilateral; rotation; inversion; and translation, which is just moving an object in a line. . . . But the thing about symmetry is it’s invisible. It does not proclaim itself. It’s there, you know, and it has a structural reality.
—John Mason

Gagosian is pleased to present Geometric Force, an exhibition of ceramic works by the late John Mason.

One of the most visionary ceramic art
 Petzel Gallery is pleased to present A Strange New Beauty, a solo exhibition of new works by Troy Brauntuch. The show, which will be on view from January 15 to March 7, 2020, marks Brauntuch’s eighth show with the gallery and his second at the Upper East Side location.

From 1937–1944, Germany’s Nazi regime engaged in cultural practices including the curation of large-scale exhibitions entitled the Great German Art Exhibitions (Große Deutsche Kunstausstellungen [GDK]). Indicative of the regime
 Marianne Boesky Gallery is pleased to present Xenia: Crossroads in Portrait Painting, an exhibition that explores the resurgence of portraiture as an incisive platform through which to consider the nature and meaning of identity. As our globalized society becomes increasingly marked by emigration, resettlement, and technological interconnectedness, so too have notions of the self become exponentially fractured and complex. Through the work of seventeen artist, Xenia: Crossroads in Portrait Paint
 Countryside, The Future, is an exhibition addressing urgent environmental, political, and socioeconomic issues through the lens of architect and urbanist Rem Koolhaas and Samir Bantal, Director of AMO, the think tank of the Office for Metropolitan Architecture (OMA). A unique exhibition for the Guggenheim Museum, Countryside, The Future will explore radical changes in the rural, remote, and wild territories collectively identified here as “countryside,” or the 98% of the earth’s surface not occu
 Galerie Lelong & Co. is pleased to present Krzysztof Wodiczko: A House Divided…, a new projection-installation work exploring contemporary political polarization in the United States and reflective of the world at large. This exhibition follows the opening of the artist’s most recent site-specific projection, Monument, commissioned by Madison Square Park Conservancy and on view January 16 through May 10, 2020.

Wodiczko’s lifelong investigation of speech in public spaces aims to give voice to 
 The Life of Signs is a group show which functions as an illustration of "discursive" forms as ways of symbolically representing and transforming experience. 

With the use of symbols, shapes and forms as “signs”, these works featured highlight the dialogue between the meanings of a representation and the concepts associated with the understanding of such representation.
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

DEAR COMPANION: MAGGIE LEE -> BEN MORGAN-CLEVELAND -> 
BERNICE NAUTA -> PAUL PFEIFFER

The exhibition opens with a reception February 2nd from 5 to 8 and is open Thursdays 1pm to 6pm and by appointment.

We originally thought this exhibition would be about dolls and puppets. Not in the performative sense but in the way they sail two ships: companion and spectator. In asking these four artists to participate, particularly in a show in a domestic environment, the int
 Braut, the Norse word for ‘pathway,’ also references Brutalist architecture–a style that emerged in the 1950s and grew out of the early 20th-century modernist movement. Le Corbusier is credited with utilizing the influential medium of ‘beton brut’ (raw concrete) in his architecture. In the 1980’s Brutalism fell out of favour, largely because concrete did not hold up well against the test of time. Water damage and decay pierced the facade of buildings, making the style emblematic of visible urban
 Matthew Marks is pleased to announce Gladys Nilsson: Honk! Fifty Years of Painting, the next exhibition in his gallery at 523 West 24th Street. Featuring thirty-three paintings and eighteen related drawings made between 1963 and 1980, the exhibition is organized in collaboration with Garth Greenan Gallery, where a selection of Nilsson’s recent paintings are on view concurrently. Together the two exhibitions comprise the largest presentation of the artist’s work to date.

Though Nilsson is bett
 Over the course of a five-decade career, Jack Whitten (1939 – 2018) made it his mission to disrupt the discipline of art history through experiments with material, process, and technique. He effectively constructed a bridge between gestural abstraction and process art, experimenting ceaselessly to arrive at a nuanced language of painting that hovers between mechanical automation and deeply personal expression. Though best-recognized as a painter and sculptor, Whitten was also a strategic and tho
 Uncanny Effects displays the work of photographer Robert Giard, bringing forth connections made between LGBTQ+ cultural producers of the late 20th-century. Beyond his most well-known project, Particular Voices: Portraits of Gay and Lesbian Writers, this exhibition highlights the expansiveness of Giard’s photographic practice, from nudes to still lives and landscapes, as well as portraits of activists and artists. Works in the show detail Giard’s relationships across communities that grew through
 Kyung Tae Kim’s works are presented in the form of multiple unit frames and expressed with various visual expression techniques that were introduced throughout the history of art. They are symbolic visualization of objects that possess meanings to the artist and objectification of his memories, desires, and various emotions associated with the objects. The images shown in Kim’s works are a visual recording or a history of the artist himself that deals with complex feelings in life such as positi
 Artists: Ben Frost, Michael Scoggins, Betsy Enzensberger, Yeah Yeah Chloe, Penny, Plastic Jesus, E.Lee, SH/sadler, Sally Hewett, Oak Oak, Adam Lucas, Dimitri Likissas, Hugh Mendes, John LaMacchia, Gale Hart, Stikki Peaches, Ben Allen, Michael Mapes, Tim Nikiforuk, Chris Bakay.

"We are encouraging all artists to explore a creative approach with their new works". The exhibiting artists range from national to international with a broad range of mediums. From Plastic Jesus's satirical jabs at con
 01102020
Curated by Y2K group
Doris Guo, Linnea Kniaz, Kricket Lane, Cole Lu, Rose Marcus
January 10 – February 16, 2020
Opening reception Friday, January 10, 2020, 7 – 9pm

Fisher Parrish Gallery is pleased to present 01102020 curated by Y2K group featuring works by Doris Guo, Linnea Kniaz, Kricket Lane, Cole Lu, and Rose Marcus. 

Y2K group brings together these five sculptors under little pretense – instead of a theme to be applied to the artists artificially, the exhibition is organi
 Westwood Gallery NYC is pleased to present “Lifting the Veil: Portraits of Amazigh Women,” a solo show of photography by Lazhar Mansouri (1932-1985). On view are thirty-five gelatin silver photographs representing only a small portion of over 100,000 portraits captured during his lifetime. This is the second exhibition of portraiture at Westwood Gallery NYC by the Algerian photographer and focuses on Amazigh (Berber) women, circa 1950s to 1970s from his hometown of Aïn Beïda (near the Aurès Moun
 Assembly Room and Kunstraum LLC are pleased to present New York Meets Tbilisi: Defining Otherness-Part I, a group exhibition curated by Nina Mdivani, featuring works by Rusudan Khizanishvili and Juliana Cerqueira Leite, as part of the curator’s investigation into the contemporary Georgian art in dialogue with New York-based artists.

The first part held at Assembly Room, focuses on works of Tbilisi-based painter Rusudan Khizanishvili (Tbilisi, 1979) and New York-based sculptor Juliana Cerqueir
 Escape by Adrienne Elise Tarver	
January 23 - March 24, 2020
OPENING RECEPTION: THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 6-8PM
ADDRESS: 242 WEST 22ND STREET, NEW YORK, NY 10011

VICTORI + MO is proud to present Escape, an exhibition of new works by Adrienne Elise Tarver. This show marks her third solo exhibition with the gallery, which opens January 23rd and will remain on view through March 14th with an opening reception on January 23rd from 6 – 8pm.

This series of new work highlights Tarver’s continued i
 R & Company presents Wendell Castle and the “Quiet Revolution” an extensive retrospective of early masterworks by Wendell Castle. The exhibition takes place January 13 – February 26 at R & Company’s 64 White Street location on both the lower and upper level galleries and coincides with the launch of the newly released R & Company publication, Wendell Castle: Scrapbook 1958-1980. 

Wendell Castle and the “Quiet Revolution” surveys Castle’s most significant early furniture and sculptural works, 
 Ivoire Foreman: I was busy thinkin’ bout toys
Weekends January 18th - February 16th, 2020
Opening reception Saturday, January 18th | 6-9p

haul gallery is thrilled to announce I was busy thinkin’ bout toys, a solo show by Ivoire Foreman. In this collection of sculptural assemblages, Brooklyn’s trash-toys come together with screws, castings   and plastic paste. Bodily in form, they mirror boats, doll houses, maps, and animals. Each “body,” intricately detailed, creates curious connections int
 In the dark times, will there also be singing?
Yes, there will be singing.
About the dark times.
—Bertolt Brecht

This quote from Bertolt Brecht served as the theme for poet Carolyn Forché's seminal 1993 anthology Against Forgetting: The Poetry of Witness, which suggested that it is impossible for artists to make work that ignores, or is not read, and seen, within the context of current political events and social issues.

2020 marks a crucial moment for society as we face crises on multi
 VERNACULAR WOMAN 
 
On view: January 17 – March 7, 2020
Opening reception & Annual Winter Party: January 17, 6:30 - 9:00 pm

The introduction to Ricco/Maresca’s book American Vernacular reminds us that Dante was the first great "vernacular" poet in Western culture, as he wrote in Italian, the dynamic language of everyday life—rather than Latin, the stagnant lexicon of the church liturgy. As we understand it now, vernacular is the broad framework in which self-taught, outsider, folk, and “pr
 What: GR Gallery is thrilled to present “ATOMIZE”, a unique duo exhibition of Alberto Di Fabio, Italian master of exceptional scientific abstraction and Masakatsu Sashie, a visionary Japanese talent of Pop Surrealism. The exhibition will also include new works by street art legend Harif Guzman, appositely conceived for this occasion to match the thread of the event. The show will feature 16 total works that will challenge the title by the subliminal textures of atomized landscapes in peculiar wa
 https://www.arch.columbia.edu/exhibitions/147-prospecting-ocean
 Selenas Mountain is pleased to present The Jester Plays Dead, featuring works by Dan Rizzo-Orr, Edward Salas, and Seneca Weintraut. This exhibition pulls together three artists whose practices weave through shape, figurative abstraction, and gallows humour. These distinct voices explore an amalgam of archetypes through visual story-telling and material compositions. The host of characters in this work blend into an overarching motif of the jester and the idea of the painting as a riddle. Rehears
 Since 2018, Beijing-born, Chicago-based artist Guanyu Xu has secretly created photographic installations throughout his childhood home in Beijing in order to queer his parents’ domestic space, transforming it into a scene of revelation, protest and reclamation. Using collected images from Western film and fashion magazines, photographs from family albums, as well as portraits of himself with other gay men, Xu enacts a deeply intimate and political performance.

Xu was raised in a conservative 
 remember all the
high and exalted things
remember all the low
and broken things

Lehmann Maupin is pleased to announce an exhibition of new paintings by Billy Childish. The prolific British artist, musician, and writer has produced hundreds of albums and dozens of volumes of fiction and poetry. For his fifth exhibition with the gallery Childish has created a body of work emblematic of his “radical traditionalist” approach. Pulling from themes found throughout art history—the bather, a lone 
 Opening Reception: January 16, 6-8PM

Swiss Institute is delighted to present REMASTER, the first institutional solo exhibition in New York by Irena Haiduk. REMASTER is an iteration of the artist’s ongoing cinematic adaptation of Mikhail Bulgakov’s novel, The Master and Margarita (written 1928-40). Her project is guided by one of the central principles offered by the novel: the existing infrastructure of this world must be used to create a new one. Since 2008, Haiduk’s exhibitions have doubled
 Exhibition Dates: February 26-March 28, 2020
Opening Reception: February 26, 2020 7-9pm

You are a dancing survivor.
Three hearts are beating in your boneless body.
Someone told me you make your ink out of the souls of dead sailors.
With your gentle, melancholy eyes you look at me,
and through them I spot a view of your home in the deep unseen.
Mesmerized by your transcendental grace
I want to be absorbed in your embrace,
which is like a force of love too strong for this world.
We cou
 LAUNCH F18 is pleased to present Dog Days, an exhibition of painting, photography and sculpture, providing a momentary reprieve from the grip of winter. Katherine Bradford, Ryan McGinley and Jack Pierson all have eloquent roots buoyantly grounded in the carefree landscapes of summer, commenting on its meditative quality, its essence and its energy. We are thrilled to have each of them returning to participate in this exhibition.

Jack Pierson sets the tone of Dog Days with a sculptural text pi
 New York, NY – From January 16 to February 22, 2020, Forum Gallery, New York, presents an exhibition of works by Andrew Wyeth (1917-2009), who set the standard for American figurative art in the second half of the Twentieth Century.  Working in pencil, watercolor, egg tempera and his much-beloved personal medium of drybrush, Wyeth, throughout his life, was a resolute champion of the universal life force of each person he chose to paint, and of the unique, difficult, ever-changing rural American 
 Rob de Oude creates his luminous and optically charged oil paintings through the repetition and overlap of lines of color in a grid formation. Working with a specially designed easel in a square format, De Oude creates densely patterned and vibrantly colored compositions that seem to radiate and glow from within. An adjustable guide on the easel allows him to carefully measure and vary the spaces between the color lines while also enabling him to skew them diagonally in certain works. De Oude va
 EXTRAordinary is a celebration of the everyday. Transforming and elevating common items into works of art, this show recognizes ordinary dignity and random delightfulness. 
Brad Nelson’s paintings of mostly packaging materials and the resin cast everyday objects by Mark Power are an immersion in the pleasures of the popular and a meditation on the daily grind. 

Brad Nelson paints in his living room, instead of a space reserved strictly for art making, in an effort to make painting feel more 
 In Practice: Total Disbelief considers artistic engagements with dimensions of doubt as they contribute to the formation of social life. Across media, the works in the exhibition engage formal tools that uphold belief and produce what we consider to be true – narrative and cinematic tropes, photographic technologies, empiricism, and others – and use them to make any number of other truth claims. A position of disbelief may see these aesthetic conventions as valid, but still delimited by external
 Lehmann Maupin is pleased to announce Yes Biological, an exhibition of new sculptures by Erwin Wurm. For the last two decades, the Austrian artist has redefined the ways we understand and look at absurdity in his sculptural, performative, and engaging works. For this exhibition, Wurm will combine biological effects to create a new series that pushes the boundaries of sculpture even further. There will be an opening reception for the artist on Thursday, January 16 from 6 to 8 pm.

Featured in t
 Team (gallery, inc.) is pleased to announce a solo show of new work by Michael St. John. Entitled Democracy Portraits, the exhibition will run from 16 January through 22 February 2020. The gallery is located at 83 Grand Street, cross streets Greene and Wooster, on the ground floor. A second solo exhibition, made up of works from the same series, will run concurrently at ASHES/ASHES at 56 Eldridge Street, cross streets Hester and Canal, on the ground floor. 

In the years since the 2016 electio
 ROLAND GEBHARDT
New Work - Floor and Wall Sculptures


January 26 - February 21, 2020
 
Opening Reception: Sunday, January 26, 4:00 to 7:00 PM


David Richard Gallery, LLC 
211 East 121 ST | New York, NY 10035
P: (212) 882-1705
www.davidrichardgallery.com
David Richard Gallery is pleased to announce New York-based artist, Roland Gebhardt in his debut exhibition with the gallery and solo presentation of his recent studio works. The presentation will consist of 14 wall-mounted sculptu
 “Comfort in living is far more in the brains than in the back.”
- Ellen H. Richards

Friedman Benda is pleased to present its sixth annual guest-curated exhibition entitled Comfort. Curated by Omar Sosa, creative director and co-founder of Apartamento, the exhibition will examine comfort versus discomfort and how this dichotomy conditions and drives human behavior, personal identity and societal norms.

Combining utilitarian objects, sculptures, photographs and paintings into a visual lands
 MICHAEL ROUILLARD

Seen/Unseen… Paintings, Drawings, Scrolls  

Exhibition dates: January 10th – February 16th, 2020

Opening reception: Friday, January 10th, 6-8 pm

Pablo’s Birthday is pleased to announce Seen/Unseen…, an exhibition of paintings, drawings and scrolls by Michael Rouillard. This is Rouillard’s third solo exhibition with the gallery.

In concert with his paintings, Rouillard’s drawings, scrolls and tape pieces share a critical part of his studio practice and provide a g
 Kasmin is delighted to present its first solo exhibition of work by sculptor Alma Allen (b. 1970, USA.) Opening on January 23, 2020, at 509 West 27th Street, the presentation brings together 12 large-scale works realized in bronze, wood, and stone. Responding to the architecture of the gallery, Allen demonstrates unprecedented ambition in the works’ scale. Included in the exhibition is his tallest sculpture to date—a bronze measuring approximately 16 feet at its highest point. A career-spanning 
 Mrs. is excited to present Assembly, an exhibition of new works by Damien Davis, Rachel Eulena Williams and Sun You.  The word “assembly” is defined as the action of fitting together the component parts of a machine or other object; a group of people congregated together in one place for a common purpose; or the action of gathering together for a universal goal.  This exhibition has been inspired by this word and this action, bringing together three artists working within unique mediums, challen
 “I use my friends . . . as gig-lamps:* there's another field I see; by your light. Over there's a hill. I widen my landscape.” – Virginia Woolf (diary)

Marisa Newman Projects is pleased to present a show of works of 8 artists selected by the painter Helen Beckman. The artists gathered for this exhibition are a group of women who, over decades, have had a significant impact on her life as an artist. The ongoing conversations generated by these friends -- ranging from the esoteric to the practi
 Howl! Happening: An Arturo Vega Project is pleased to present Jane Dickson’s Hot, Hot, Hot, a series of rarely seen and moody paintings of Times Square peep shows from the 1980s. Dickson’s history and legacy are rooted in Times Square. She worked and lived there from 1978 to 2008 documenting her daily lived experiences and observations as a young woman. In photos, drawings, and paintings that utilize unconventional industrial and domestic materials as surfaces—including carpet, sandpaper, and bl
 Lyons Wier Gallery is pleased to present “Hell Yes!” a fresh, new series of portrait paintings by Tara Lewis. “Hell Yes!” portrays real-life subjects adorned with incongruous props, artist-made t-shirts and satin pageant sashes boasting pop culture text idioms.  Her portrait process happens organically as models go through her wardrobe, accessories and props to discover a ‘persona’.  These ‘play-dates’ serve as a pivotal ingredient for her practice as they are the underpinning of the subsequent 
 Theodore:Art is pleased to present DOGS and BONES , an exhibition of work that contemplates the potential for psyche and soul in our animal companions and ourselves, through life and after-life. Bringing together art and fashion star Scooter LaForge, the Manchester-based social media phenomenon Faye Scott-Farrington, and obsessive collage artist Nancy Handler from Florida, DOGS and BONES aims for laughs, tears, shivers, pathos, and visual riches.

Canine visitors are welcome on Sunday afternoo
 56 HENRY is pleased to present What's Up Fam?, an exhibition of new work by Kunle Martins. The show, comprising a group of graphite portraits on found cardboard, will be on view from January 24th through March 8th, 2020. What's Up Fam? marks Kunle Martins' first solo presentation with 56 HENRY.

Looking at the portraits that artist Kunle Martins creates of his loved ones, I observe the wanness of double-tapping quick approval on a friend’s face in a newsfeed. It really is the limpest gesture o
 Really Large Numbers (art/laboratory collaboration between Julia Oldham and Chad Stayrook), presents The Observatory, a multimedia installation that envisions a post-climate change, post-apocalyptic future. Inside a large sculptural observatory will be a video monitor showing the daily routines of Stayrook, the last remaining human. A three-channel video projection on the large gallery wall depicts earth as a deserted wasteland with a female artificial intelligence (AI) system, performed by Oldh
 For Immediate Release.

Barney Savage Gallery is pleased to present Taking The Measure Of, the second solo exhibition of recent paintings by Jillian Denby, at the gallery. Much has been written about her influential and hard to find early oil paintings centering around the male and female figure. This exhibit presents a selection of ravishingly beautiful recent work in a more modestly scaled and conceptualized idiom, that pivots activities of multiple figures within an exterior day to day worl
 Kasmin is delighted to announce an exhibition of paper collages by German surrealist Max Ernst (1891–1976). Staged in collaboration with the Destina Foundation, Collages will be on view from January 23, 2020, at the gallery’s 297 Tenth Avenue location. The exhibition features approximately forty collages on paper, ranging in both scale and subject matter, and spanning 1920 to 1975. Many of the works, with a focus on the 1960s and 70s, have never before been exhibited.

According to art histori
 Gitterman Gallery is proud to present an exhibition of photographic work by Kenneth Josephson from 1960 to 1980 that invites overlapping dialogues on a variety of concepts. He explores the complex relationship of image and object, photographic truth and illusion, time, spatial perspective, even the history of photography itself. Josephson challenges our perceptions and invites us to consider different perspectives, while maintaining a strong sense of humor and wonder that makes his work both acc
 Donald Judd was a classically trained draftsman and army engineer, who continued to use the skills he learned in those fields for the rest of his career. This next exhibition features fifteen drawings by the artist made between 1991 and 1992, all of which investigate the same rectangular form. Embellished with flawless grid patterns and gestural shading, the sequence of drawings illustrate the artist’s thought process—going from simple to complex in a progression that feels as organic as it is t
 Samba In The Dark
Jonathas de Andrade, assume vivid astro focus, Dora Longo Bahia, Lenora de Barros, Vivian Caccuri, Marcos Chaves, Marcelo Cidade, Rodrigo Franco, Marcius Galan, Cao Guimarães, Lucia Koch, André Komatsu, Laura Lima, Jarbas Lopes, Cinthia Marcelle, Marepe, Arjan Martins, Cildo Meireles, Sérgio Sister, Valeska Soares, Clarissa Tossin, Bárbara Wagner & Benjamin de Burca, Yuli Yamagata

January 14 – February 15, 2020
Samba In The Dark is inspired by a well-known Brazilian protes
 Ki Smith Gallery is thrilled to announce &#38291; (Ma), new works by Sono Kuwayama. This will mark the artist’s inaugural solo exhibition.

“Ma” or &#38291; is a common Japanese word with no specific English equivalent. It can be universally understood as a pause. It is an absence that defines a space, the interior of a bowl. “Ma” is more of an interlude than it is a chasm. One’s understanding of “ma” is driven by her shifting perception as she becomes acquainted with a given setting.

Kuway
 The city of Pilsen is considered to be one of the last cities to be liberated by the Allies during the end of WWII. This exhibition will explain the advance of Allied troops from Normandy to Pilsen, the role of General George S. Patton and other historical circumstances.

OPENING NIGHT: January 29, 6:30PM in the Gallery
ON VIEW: January 29 - March 1, 2020

Opening remarks by Deputy Mayor of the City of Pilsen Michal Vozobule, the curator Ivan Rollinger, liberator Earl Ingram and George Patt
 Peter Freeman, Inc. is pleased to present Archive / Ruins, Fiona Tan’s first solo exhibition in New York City in the past ten years. The exhibition marks the U.S. premiere of her new film Archive (2019), and the world-premiere of Ruins (2020). Related works, the audio track Hydriotaphia (2016), and the series of photogravures, Shadow Archive (2019), will also be on view.  

To create Archive, Tan conducted extensive research on the Belgian visionary and peace activist Paul Otlet (1868–1944). O
 Fort Gansevoort is pleased to present Hock E Aye Vi Edgar Heap of Birds, Standing Rock Awakens the World opening Saturday, January 11th, 2020. Heap of Bird’s inaugural exhibition with the gallery asserts Native American sovereignty,
underscoring the relationship between the body, land, and ownership.
Location is an intrinsic component to Heap of Birds’ work. Upon entering the exhibition, one is confronted with the history of the land upon which one stands. Indigenous people are comprised of ab
 New York, NY - albertz benda is pleased to present Tsibi Geva: SUBSTRATA, on view from January 9 through February 15, 2020.  The exhibition features a new body of work created over the past two years, defined by Geva’s focus on deconstruction and abstraction to convey the emotional and cultural tenor of his surroundings.

 

Motifs of terrazzo tiles, stone walls, and latticework, which have been prevalent in Geva’s paintings since the nineteen-nineties, are pushed to the forefront in these n
 Curated by Nora Griffin

With work by Robin Bruch, Jane Corrigan, Matthew Dale Fischer, Hermine Ford, Peter Gallo, Nora Griffin, Alteronce Gumby, Jarrett Key, Chris Martin, Ruth Root, Uman and a new collaborative zine by Nora Griffin and David Fierman
 Luhring Augustine is pleased to partner with London-based gallery Sam Fogg to present Gothic Spirit: Medieval Art from Europe, opening in Luhring Augustine’s Chelsea flagship on January 25, 2020. The world’s leading dealer in the art of the European Middle Ages, Sam Fogg has for the past thirty years mounted ground-breaking exhibitions that challenge and redefine perceptions of Medieval and Renaissance art. Following Of Earth and Heaven, the acclaimed 2018 collaborative exhibition between the tw
 /Users/praxis/Desktop/official press release Claudia Vieira.pdf
 Hannah Levy
Pendulous Picnic
January 23 - February 29, 2020

Casey Kaplan is pleased to announce Hannah Levy “Pendulous Picnic,” the artist’s first solo exhibition with the gallery.

Levy’s sculpture both incite and repel touch. By manipulating texturally incongruous materials such as silicone and steel, Levy produces tactile structures that arouse an acute bodily awareness. Her references are broad: medical equipment, hardware, prosthetics, vegetables, and furniture are anthropomorphized 
 Castelli Gallery is pleased to present "Voice" (1974) by Robert Morris. The exhibition at 24 W 40, restages one of the artist’s rarely presented audio installations alongside preparatory drawings and diagrams. By making sound a key element in "Voice," Morris challenges the expectation that a work of art must be material, visual, and actively created by the artist. Although the piece incorporates material elements—including speakers and felt-covered boxes that serve as seats for visitors—these co
 Painting the Japanese Blues: Introducing Issei Nishimura
(January 9 - February 15, 2020)


Issei Nishimura has a number of obsessions but these three are the most important: the blues, his cats, and making drawings and paintings.  Obsession might be too mild a word for the passion and time this prolific artist puts into artmaking.  There is a beautiful chaos in his work that is held together by the consistencies in his wild style including off kilter, sometimes cartoon like, sometimes purely
 Friday, February 14th, ISSUE presents artist and musician Marcia Bassett’s Out-SIDe PATtern RE-configuration, a new sound and light performance featuring Bassett’s video projections sourced from digitized super 8mm film, liquid light experiments, and video feedback with color gel slide projections by Barry Weisblat. Kyle Eyre Clyd, the longtime moniker of Alabama-based, interdisciplinary artist Kyle Kessler, also presents new work. In late 2019, Bassett released Kyle Eyre Clyd’s Eggshell on her 
 GREENPOINT TERMINAL GALLERY
67 West St. #320
Brooklyn, NY 11222
Info@greenpointterminalgallery.com
Greenpointterminalgallery.com

Weird Nature
Roxanne Jackson
Gracelee Lawrence
Heidi Norton
Brent Owens

January 17 – February 21, 2020
Opening Reception January 17, 7-10pm

Roxanne Jackson is a ceramic artist and mixed-media sculptor living in Brooklyn, NY. Her macabre works are black-humored investigations of the links between transformation, myth and pop-culture. Press for her work
 The New York Studio School presents recent works by Roger Tibbetts in Recto/Verso, January 27 – March 1, 2020, with an Opening Reception Thursday, January 30, 6-8pm. The paintings of Roger Tibbetts at first insist a poetic, hard edge finality, but closer inspection reveals their weathered, shifting surfaces; geometric painting that survived battle.

The worked acrylic surfaces present silky, meditative fields, punctuated by moments where Tibbetts snaps us back to the reality of the making; wit
 Andrew Kreps Gallery is pleased to announce Think of Our Future, an exhibition of new works by Andrea Bowers at 22 Cortlandt Alley. 
As our global freedoms decline, Andrea Bowers is trying to move from grief to hope by focusing on youth activists beginning with the new video, My Name Means Future. Centered on Tokata Iron Eyes, a member of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe who has been involved with the movement to stop the Dakota Access Pipeline since its inception, the video continues Bowers’s com
 Estate of Roy Colmer

Opening reception: 16 January, 6 - 8pm

Lisson Gallery is pleased to present its third exhibition of the work of Roy Colmer since announcing representation of the artist’s estate in 2016. Debuting the entirety of his seminal Doors, NYC (1975-76) project at 504 West 24th Street, this marks the first ever comprehensive presentation of this monumental photographic project, while significant sections have previously been exhibited at PS1 and the New York Public Library. Aft
 EFA Robert Blackburn Printmaking Workshop is pleased to announce NEW Unique Artists Books with Chakaia Booker, in collaboration with Jazmine Catasus and Master Printer, Justin Sanz.&#8232;&#8232;Best known for her large sculptural works made from discarded tires which are cut, looped, layered and reassembled, Booker's prints explore similar ideas of recombination and transformation through analogous printmaking processes.&#8232;&#8232;The covers of these unique books are from prints of woodblock
 Bite the tongue. Between the teeth. Swallow
deep. Deeper. Swallow. Again, even more.
Until there would be no more organ.

- Theresa Hak Kyung Cha &#52264;&#54617;&#44221;


DOOSAN Gallery New York is pleased to present an inaugural exhibition of Doosan Art LAB with two New York based artists, Jesse Chun and Tiffany Jaeyeon Shin. Comprised of two labs, the exhibition binds to an interrogation of speech (enunciation, silence, erasure) and flesh (consumption, contamination, containment) to c
 Josée Bienvenu is pleased to present Left, Right, and Center, Ana Tiscornia's second exhibition with the gallery. Displacement, fissure, uncertainty, and repetition are constants in Tiscornia’s artistic practice. In her newest work, she seeks to unite the fortuitous and the precise: paintings on and of wood resembling demolished wall fragments and modernist house floorplans. This union activates perceptions of physical fragility and ideological failure. The use of architectural tools addresses t
 In "The Blue Sun Moans," Katy Cowan’s cast aluminum wall hanging sculptures take the associative and material qualities of rope as their prompt. Reconfigured and recomposed, this familiar object reveals a plethora of new associations. Cowan’s material interest in objects and tools of work, such as hammers and two-by-fours, intersects in this new body of work with her attention to the mutability of color and light. Her sculptures are produced via a casting process that echoes the traditional prod
 Bob Witz: Milk Made
OSMOS: 50 East 1st Street, storefront west, New York, NY 

Born in Tomah, Wisconsin in 1934, Bob Witz stayed pretty close to home until he joined the Army in 1954. He returned from Europe to enroll at the University of Wisconsin, exploring what it meant to “be a starving artist” and sending hand written letters-to-the-editor of Artforum. When esteemed critic Robert Pincus-Witten published a two-page spread with Witz’s submissions in the September 1973 issue, the Midwestern
 David Zwirner is pleased to present a new immersive light installation by American artist Doug Wheeler (b. 1939) at the gallery’s 519 West 19th Street location in New York.

Over the past five decades, Wheeler has become known for his innovative constructions and installations that engage with the perception and experience of light, space, and sound. Although Wheeler began his career as a painter, his wall-mounted artworks soon began incorporating light as a medium and quickly gave way to an a
 HIGH NOON is pleased to present Jennifer Coates’s debut with the gallery. The title, "Toxic Halo," is a phrase from a song written by the artist called “Ruin.” "Sunlight hits the flesh, the air repeats your name, like a toxic halo around me." In her paintings, radiant halos surround figures and trees, amplifying the color relationships between shapes and their environment. Coates’s color choices-- phosphorescent green and jaundice yellow combined with synthetic pink and corporate lavender-- are 
 Mizuma & Kips is pleased to announce a solo exhibition by LIU Enzhao, entitled “Paradise in My Dream” beginning on February 8th in New York.
Born in 1989, Liu Enzhao is a Chinese-born Philadelphia artist who combines a blend of eastern and western cultures, realism and surrealism, natural and simulated into his work. His highly detailed paintings have enormous range, both in scale and materiality with meticulous attention to surface, wild inventiveness of patterning, unexpected color harmonies 
 The work in Shoot the Breeze is a riff on the platitudes and visual language of common idioms, sayings and proverbs. 

Marcelja sees idioms and common phrases, as reflections of our individual memories and collective culture. These sayings are seemingly mindless, but they often conjure images and associations in the mind that are specific to our history and society. Shooting the breeze may be absurd as an act, but those words also evoke a range of circumstances and emotions: laziness, violence
 The BDDW Annex Gallery is pleased to announce Cave Light, an exhibition of work by Cara Tomlinson and Patricia Paludanus.

In Cave Light, Tomlinson and Paludanus explore their definitions of the ‘cave’ where their work originates, their minds, and come together to create an exhibition combining powerful investigations of their interior logic of space and color.

Patricia Paludanus, a Dutch artist based in Amsterdam, studied at the Academy of Visual Arts in Enschede, specializing in media art
 Loretta Howard Gallery is pleased to present Specific Forms, a group exhibition featuring works by Edward Avedisian, Richard Anuszkiewicz, Darby Bannard, Billy Al Bengston, Judy Chicago, Gene Davis, Thomas Downing, Marcia Hafif, Al Held, Ray Parker, Larry Poons, Leon Polk Smith, and George Sugarman. 

This exhibition curated by Saul Ostrow, brings together works by a group of artists whose approach to abstract art was informed in the late 1950s- mid 1960s by a growing opposition to the painter
 Van Doren Waxter and CHART, a new and dynamic collaborative space in Tribeca opened by Clara Ha, are pleased to announce Jackie Saccoccio: Femme Brut, a two-venue exhibition of the American artist’s paintings, drawings, and prints to go on view at 23 East 73rd Street and 74 Franklin Street, respectively, from January 22, 2020, with the uptown presentation through March 14 and the downtown presentation through March 21. Saccoccio is admired for her radiant abstractions and an expanding use of the
 Cut, Crumpled, Drawn, Torn, Glued, Layered, Painted, Folded, Saturated, Creased, Stained, Dyed, Scratched, Erased, Scrubbed, Printed, Stamped, Peeled... Exploring the Materiality of Paper
 Ethan Cohen Gallery is pleased to present Akito Nara’s first solo exhibition with the gallery, entitled Ikiru wo Egaku (Painting is Living/Living is Painting). The show highlights Nara’s body of work made between 2015 and 2020 where the artist weaves together kaleidoscopic images of abstracted portraits and self-portraits that illustrate a vivid chronicle of his life between New York and Japan. The result is fresh and highly personal, reading as a visual diary as the artist steps back and forth 
 Kathryn Markel Fine Arts is pleased to present Indra’s Net, an exhibition of new work by Chris Arabadjis, Karen Margolis, Paula Overbay and Rachael Wren.

"They [Buddhas] know all phenomena come from interdependent origination.
They know all world systems exhaustively.  They know all the different phenomena in all worlds, interrelated in Indra's net."
-The Buddha

Indra's Net is a metaphor used to illustrate the Buddhist concept of Sunyata or emptiness -the idea that nothing possesses inhe
 Positive, Negative: Joan Witek, Jonathan Ryan Storm, Seamus Heidenreich  
January 31st - March 14th, 2020
Opening Reception: Friday, January 31st 6-8pm

Massey Klein Gallery is pleased to announce, Positive, Negative, a group show of artwork by Joan Witek, Jonathan Ryan Storm, and Seamus Heidenreich.  The exhibition explores the interplay of positive and negative space through the artists’ structured and intuitive practices.  The role of opposition holds a distinct meaning in the context of 
 In/Flux: on influence, inspiration, transmission and transformation

January 25 - February 23, 2020


Curated by Zahar Vaks
in collaboration with Eden Pearlstein and Ayin Press

Featuring:
Tannaz Farsi, Yevgeniy Fiks, Fox Hysen, Helina Metaferia, Eden Pearlstein, Walter Price, Ralph Pugay, Charlie Rauh, Molly Zuckerman Hartung


Opening Reception:
Saturday, January 25, 6:00 to 9:00 PM


Things make you think
Make you think things
You think things make
Think things make you


 For more information: http://mocada.org/2020/01/09/marc-baptiste-rara/

Visit:
Contact: amy@mocada.org
 Denny Dimin Gallery is pleased to announce Strange Animal, a solo exhibition by Andy Woll, on view from January 31st to March 8th, 2020. This is Woll’s second solo exhibition with the gallery.

Andy Woll is best known for his paintings of Mount Wilson, a peak that is identifiable from all over Los Angeles, where Woll lives. His unique approach, informed by research of modernist artists and literary figures, explores the relationship of an abstract artist to a well-known and deeply investigated
 Matthew Marks is pleased to announce Leidy Churchman: Earth Bound, the next exhibition in his gallery at 522 West 22nd Street.

In Churchman’s work, no subject is off limits. The scale of these sixteen new paintings varies from a one-foot-tall abstract composition to an interior scene more than eight feet wide. One painting depicts the camera lenses of the newest iPhone arranged like three eyes, another a bouquet of roses, while another, based on a Tantric divination card, pictures a cloud-cov
 Mendes Wood DM is pleased to present Landscapes of the South, a group exhibition themed around the representation of landscapes in South America. Comprised of works made between 1659 and 2019, the works on view were made by early European colonizers in Brazil, modernist Brazilian masters who sought to subvert the vision of said colonizers by building a national artistic language, and contemporary South American artists who reflect on the notion of landscape itself, beyond its political referents
 The process of collecting, filming, and experiencing began April 12th, 2009 and completed April 12th, 2019.

10 years collecting medical records.

10 years filming dance videos.

10 years of abstinence from mood and mind altering substances.

-------------------------------------

1,000 USD is my current medical debt to the City of New York as of January 28th, 2020.

-Matt Hilvers
 Liz Ainslie, Chris Berthof, Sam Bornstein, Lindsay Burke, Daniel Davidson, Georgia Elrod, Stacy Fisher, Laura Frantz, Sarah Fuhrman, Alexis Granwell, Eric Hibit, Amanda Rose Hunter, Matt Jones, Tricia Keightley, Kimia Kline, Sarah McDougald Kohn, Emily Noelle Lambert, Elisa Lendvay, Leonora Loeb, Stuart Lorimer, JJ Manford, Keisha Prioleau-Martin, Vicente Matte, Steve Mykietyn, Ben Pritchard, Elisa Soliven, Melissa Staiger

Underdonk is pleased to present Purple, a plus one group show comprise
 Geary is pleased to present its inaugural show at 208 Bowery. A Feeling Falls Apart is a group exhibition with works by Paolo Arao, Jeanine Oleson, Kristine Woods, and Sun You, curated by Poppy DeltaDawn. 

 Feeling, a verb, is also a noun. Many English speakers understand that adding the -ing suffix to a word can denote action, but to add -ing can also form a verbal noun. Sewing Machine, Jumping Jack, A Reaping .  A Feeling is a thing that helps us to interpret the world around us. Cognitive 
 321 Gallery presents an exhibition of paintings on used pizza boxes by Pictures Generation artist Paul McMahon (b. 1950, San Diego, CA).

Since 2018, McMahon has been using marker and acrylic on discarded pizza boxes found in and around Woodstock, NY, painting over and between the lines of quaint dining and landscape scenes pre-printed on the surfaces of the cardboard boxes. While the boxes are recognizable mass produced items, when collected and arranged typologically, the diversity in print 
 Javier Mayoral's oddly seductive and sarcastic pieces, on view at the The Storefront Project, 1/30-2.22
 Ceysson & Bénétière is pleased to present Cult of the Crimson Queen, curated by Michelle Segre. Featuring works by Sarah Braman, Amy Brener, Sedrick Chisom, Kari Cholnoky, Joy Curtis, Nikita Gale, Naotaka Hiro, Michael Mahalchick, Sarah Peters, and Jennifer Sirey, this exhibition will be on view from February 5th through March 14th, 2020. 

Cult of the Crimson Queen builds upon allusions to cult iconography, ritual practices, and music festivals to propose art as a healing force and palliative
 Amos Eno Gallery is pleased to announce the upcoming opening of The Longest Distance, the first exhibition to bring together works by Malin Abrahamsson, Irja Bodén, and Philip Swan. The show features ceramics, mixed-media sculptures, and paintings on canvas. The opening reception will be on Thursday, February 6, from 6-8 PM at 56 Bogart Street in Brooklyn, NY.

The title is an oblique reference to the passing of time and its inevitable influence on the process of creativity. A character in Ten
 The subversive works and personality of the French writer Alfred Jarry (1873–1907) played a crucial role in the transition from the nineteenth-century avant-garde to the emergent modernist movements of the early twentieth century. An inspiration for Dada and Surrealism and a touchstone for the Theatre of the Absurd, Jarry is most renowned for his play Ubu roi and the legend of its sensational premiere in 1896. To his contemporaries, however—figures such as Paul Gauguin, Henri Rousseau, Oscar Wil
 Rita Ackermann
Robert Arneson
Mike Bidlo
Theaster Gates
Liam Gillick
Kim Jones
Juul Kraijer
Michael Landy
Sherrie Levine
Sol LeWitt
Andrew Mania
Christian Marclay
Robert Morris
Richard Pettibone
Analia Saban
Michael St. John
Jean Tinguely
Mark Wallinger
Robert Watts
Andrea Zittel
 I

A POPS (privately owned public space) is a publicly accessible space provided by the private sector through bonuses and other mechanisms. The concept of granting property owners the right to construct floor area above the normally permitted maximum if they set aside public open space on their private property was first introduced with the adoption of the comprehensive zoning overhaul of 1961. The most common type of POPS in North America is the corporate-controlled plaza, park or atrium pro
 A.I.R. Gallery is pleased to present Forever is Composed of Nows, a group exhibition curated by Assembly Room
NYC, a curatorial collective founded by Natasha Becker, Paola Gallio, and Yulia Topchiy. The exhibition features
A.I.R. National Artist Members Hend Al-Mansour, Diane Cionni, d’Ann de Simone, Robin Dintiman, Kathryn Hart,
Marlana Stoddard Hayes, Jody Joldersma, Katherine Tzu-Lan Mann, Jennifer McCandless, Carola Miles, Mimi
Oritsky, Ruth Owens, Simone Paterson, Allison Paschke, Marth
 The Center Cannot Hold
February 12 - March 7, 2020

Curators: Lexi Axon, Guy De Baere, Maria Duran, Hayley Ferber, Mija Jung, Kelly Olshan. The exhibition was organized by Eric Sutphin.


The artists in this exhibition depart from the laws of spatial logic, creating works that upend physical and metaphysical conventions.

Discordant textures reflect  the rich tension of city living. Expanses of negative space and dream-like sequences transport the viewer into moments of respite and quiet
 VIRIDIANARTISTS	      A CONTEMPORARY ART GALLERY 
548 WEST 28TH STREET between 10th & 11th Ave., NEW YORK, NY, 10001        		        TEL 212-414-4040       viridianartistsinc@gmail.com 		     	          		               		  www.viridianartists.com	        
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE					        Please List
“Members Only”
January 28- February 15, 2020 
Opening Reception: Thursday, January 30, 6–8PM
Closing Party: Saturday, February 15, 4–6pm
Renee Borkow * Ellen Burnett * Henry Coupe * May DeV
 Catherine Murphy - Terry Winters: 
PORTRAITS 


February 1 - April 10, 2020
Iowa City

In the early 1970s, after his final descent into near-blindness, Jorge Luis Borges drew a self-portrait for Burt Britton in the basement of the Strand Bookstore in New York City. The result, a cluster of lines, was published in 1976 in The Paris Review upside down. Which direction it was meant to be seen, we can’t be sure….

A definition of a portrait could be a depiction of a likeness. A reflection. 
 John Miller has been exploring notions of identity, economics, and social class throughout his forty-year practice. His latest exhibition at Metro Pictures concerns, among other things, a sense of everyday malaise and life's petty annoyances. It features a series of large-format photographs, two installations, and a video work titled Toll Free.

Mannequins are an iconic theme in this show. Miller characterizes them as simple anthropomorphized clothing racks that can nonetheless prompt unnervin
 Postmasters and PostmastersROMA announce two concurrent solo exhibitions by New York-based painter Giovanni Garcia-Fenech. This is the artist's second solo exhibition at Postmasters and his first at PostmastersROMA. It is also the first time we present one artist in both our locations simultaneously. 

The subjects in his paintings may change from abstract to figurative and back again, but the foundations of Garcia-Fenech's work remain the same: improvised composition, a tightly restricted pal
 Picture Time
February 14 – March 22, 2020
Opening Reception: Friday, February 14, 6-9pm 
BROOKLYN, NY – Picture Time is a two-person exhibition, curated by Sun You, featuring new work by artists Buhm Hong and Kakyung Lee. 
Hong and Lee's works depict moments in time that are frozen, remembered or imagined in a range of media including drawing, animation, video and installation. Both artists came to New York as international students and currently live and work between Seoul and New York.
In
 Saturday, February 22, 12-5pm
RSVP

Lydia Bell, Maura Donohue, Judy Hussie-Taylor, Kristin Juarez, Seta Morton, Okwui Okpokwasili, Cecilia Vicuña, Asiya Wadud, Eva Yaa Asantewaa, and others to be announced. With food installation by Spiral Theory Test Kitchen: Bobbi Salvör Menuez, Quori Theodor & Precious Okoyomon.

This series of long form conversations unfolds over four Saturday afternoons during PLATFORM 2020: Utterances from the Chorus. They will allow for different ways to gather, talk
 Opening Reception | February 21, 2020 | 5:00–7:00 p.m.
Artist/Curator Talk | February 21, 2020 | 4:00–5:00 p.m.
On view through March 20, 2020

The Jane Hartsook Gallery is pleased to present new work by Jennifer Rochlin, curated by Angelik Vizcarrondo-Laboy. Aptly titled Clay Is Just Thick Paint after a quotation from artist Peter Voulkos, this exhibition argues for the equality of clay and paint as artistic materials. Trained as a painter, Rochlin began working with clay in 2007 and now ex
 Arsenal Contemporary is pleased to present This Sacred Vessel (pt. 1). Reflecting on the long shadow cast by the tradition of landscape painting, this exhibition explores a complex relationship to the environment as it undergoes grave changes. The ten painters gathered in the exhibition carve out space through their chosen medium — grasping the complexities between ecological and personal anxiety. Varying from abstraction and representation, reality and illusion, the selection of paintings speak
 Michael Werner Gallery is pleased to present Parapliers the Willow Dipped, Paintings 1967-1997, an exhibition of works by Don Van Vliet. Selected by artist Spencer Sweeney, this is the first New York exhibition of Van Vliet’s paintings in more than a decade.

A celebrated, prodigious child sculptor who grew up to reinvent himself as the legendary musician Captain Beefheart, Don Van Vliet today holds a place in rock-and-roll history as one of the most exacting and unconventional recording artis
 Paul Kremer: Layer Hooks
February 7-March 11, 2020
 
Alexander Berggruen is pleased to present Paul Kremer: Layer Hooks, opening Friday, February 7, 2020, with a reception from 6-8 pm at the gallery: 1018 Madison Avenue, Floor 3.
 
In considering the body of work for this show, Paul Kremer stated: “When tossing around layered art files, sometimes things land perfectly. I imagine it’s like finding a good guitar hook. Layer hooks.” 
 
At the core of Kremer’s practice is a three-part journey
 signs and symbols is pleased to present About an Arabesque, the first New York solo exhibition by visual artist and choreographer Jonah Bokaer. The exhibition marks a moment in which the interplay of disciplines in Bokaer’s practice can be perceived and encountered within a gallery setting. Through their confrontation of stereotypes and iconoclasm, the featured works explore the complexities at large in Western representation and identification of individuals in the Middle East and North Africa.
 Stephen Mallon

Passing Freight 

February 13th - March 15th 2020:
Opening Reception Thursday, February 13th 6-8
Thursday-Sunday 12-6 & by appointment


Front Room Gallery is pleased to present, "Passing Freight" a solo exhibition of photographs by Stephen Mallon. “Passing Freight” is a visual celebration of the unique beauty and function of freight train cars in United States. In 2018 there were 1,637,000 freight cars in operation across North America, each distinctive in their constru
 Denise Bibro Fine Art, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, NYC, is pleased to announce Nora Chavooshian’s fourth major exhibition with the gallery.

Chavooshian continues her life’s journey exploring her identity and universal truths through the lens of her Armenian heritage. What differentiates this exhibition from others is her focus on the work of women and their tenacious efforts to keep their cultural identity regardless of the atrocities that they have experienced. It is a repetitive damning 
 Mnuchin Gallery is proud to announce Chasing Down the Image, a solo exhibition by Mary Lovelace O’Neal. The exhibition will survey over five decades of the artist’s work, spanning the late 1960s through the 2000s. This will be O’Neal’s first solo exhibition in New York in over 25 years. On view from February 6 through March 14, 2020, the exhibition will be accompanied by a fully illustrated catalogue.

 

Since the late 1960s, Mary Lovelace O’Neal has been known for her singular paintings th
 The exhibition, "Good Luck", explores artworks created by both self-taught and schooled contemporary artists, whose works were not made with this theme in mind, but expand within its context.

More information soon.
 From January 8 through February 29, 2020 Victoria Munroe Fine Art is pleased to present two exhibitions David to Pollock: Selected Master Drawings and, in a separate room, 18th & 19th Century Natural History, Garden Plans & Barbara Regina Dietzsch. 

David to Pollock presents seven important master drawings, each composition a study of the figure in a context unique to the culture and art of drawing at the time of its making. Works by Francois Quesnel, Luigi Sabatelli, Paul Borel, Jacques-Loui
 NEW YORK—Nahmad Contemporary is pleased to announce Daniel Buren | Pierre Huyghe, an exhibition that foregrounds the conceptual affinities between French artists Daniel Buren (b. 1938) and Pierre Huyghe (b. 1962). Presenting a selection of Buren’s vanguard striped paintings from 1966 in dialogue with one of Huyghe’s dynamic aquarium ecosystems from 2013, the show unites two bodies of works that dismantle the conventional relationship between authorship and presentation. 

The inception of Dani
 Spencer Brownstone Gallery is pleased to announce Switch Back, Jane South’s sixth solo exhibition with the gallery. The show will feature a striking departure from past sculptural work with fresh creations that lie between the second and third dimensions, hard and soft, form and their perceived function.

South’s new work delves into the formal in-between in new and sophisticated ways. Her characteristic architectural forms and pseudo-industrial material are condensed. The past emphasis on thr
 Shelter Gallery is pleased to announce Di Fate, an exhibition of drawings by the late Italian self-taught artist, Alessandra Michelangelo (1961-2009), who lived and worked in Livorno, Italy. The exhibition will offer a close look at the artist’s atmospheric drawings that ponder themes of fantasy and myth-making, and will run concurrent with the Outsider Art Fair New York, to be held January 16-19, 2020.

For the majority of her adult life, Michelangelo lived in psychiatric facilities (also kno
 A founding member of the Art Ensemble of Chicago, Joseph Jarman was responsible for the pioneering theatrical and multimedia elements of the avant-garde jazz group’s shamanistic performances, which often also featured the recitation of Jarman’s poetry. In 1977, Art Ensemble of Chicago Publishing Co. published Black Case Volume I & II: Return From Exile, a collection composed mainly of his flowing, fiery free verse. Jarman writes with compassionate urgency of the struggles of growing up on Chicag
 Thursday, February 13, 2020

7–9 pm

Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Auditorium, 3rd Floor

Celebrate our exhibition Jacques-Louis David Meets Kehinde Wiley with a lively conversation between artist Kehinde Wiley and cultural critic and author Hilton Als on the ways that race, masculinity, power, and representation layer onto portraiture and shape the writing of history.

Tickets are $25 and include Museum general admission. Member tickets are $20. Not a Member? Join today!

To request accom
 Apocalyptic Screensavers features the work of contemporary media artists Sean Capone, Justin Wood, LoVid, Yoshi Sodeoka. 

The title Apocalyptic Screensavers is a playful riff on the famous phrase coined by critic Harold Rosenberg in his 1952 essay “The American Action Painters”, in which he used the derisive epithet “apocalyptic wallpaper” to describe works which were so abstract as to become purely decorative... and therefore meaningless. Indeed, the term “wallpaper” has long served as a put
 Rachel Uffner Gallery is pleased to present I’m Doing My Face In Magic Marker, Joanne Greenbaum’s third solo exhibition with the gallery. Spanning the entire first floor, Greenbaum will present a series of new paintings and works in kiln-formed glass.
 
&#8232;Greenbaum’s practice stretches across an array of mediums, materials, and surfaces. She begins every piece with the intention that it will lead to something different than the last. Greenbaum sets a new challenge for herself with each wo
 Fergus McCaffrey is pleased to present MERCER STREET opening at the gallery's New York location on Thursday, February 6th. Featuring Marcia Hafif, Joan Jonas, Shigeko Kubota, and Jackie Winsor, the exhibition brings together a selection of work by four pioneering artists, residents of 110/112 Mercer Street, from the mid-1970s to today.
 “Fleischner believes in absolute truths based on human proportions that can and should be utilized in the making of art, and that have shaped many of the great cultural artifacts in human history.” – Jennifer Gross, former Founding Director, Hauser & Wirth Institute

 

Helwaser Gallery is pleased to present Witness Mark, a solo exhibition by artist Richard Fleischner (b. 1944, New York). Over an extensive, five-decade career, Fleischner has produced a wide-ranging body of work that comprise
 Camilla Padgitt-Coles
The Tuning House
February 8 - March 8, 2020
Opening Reception: Friday, February 7, 6-8pm

The Tuning House is a sound-activated light and sound installation where voice is translated into synthesized sound
and color. It is set up in a greenhouse with a chair and a microphone facing a wall of colored light. You are invited
to enter the greenhouse to interact with it. As you make sounds into the microphone, the colors and sounds in the
installation follow and mimic th
 If confronted by a starved great white shark, or a fast-approaching cement truck, the body triggers a physical response that prepares it to either take on obstacles or run from the situation altogether. This "Fight-or-Flight" response is put into motion by the Sympathetic Nervous System, a normally harmonious network of nerves and hormones that, if thrown off balance, can result in serious complications. 


The Sympathetic Nervous System inside me becomes my most reliable ally. In a fitting c
 “If you were on the Moon, which has no atmosphere, the sky would be black both night and day.”      -The StarChild Team at NASA


LatchKey Gallery is pleased to present A Muffled Sound Underwater, an exhibition that critically engages the cultural and historical perceptions of the color black through the lens of abstraction and how these preconceived notions directly/indirectly transfer to blackness. 

The exhibition is a culmination of a three-year investigation between Alteronce Gumby and
 The Robin Rice Gallery is pleased to present a photographic exhibition by Tina West, featuring a special new collaboration between Robin Rice and furniture designer, activist Tucker Robbins. Jessica Kravitz of Exalted Alchemy created an aromatic experience exclusively for the exhibition. The installation was designed by sculpture Amy Pilkington. The opening reception will be held on Wednesday, January 29, 2019 from 6pm to 8pm.  This is Tina West’s seventh solo exhibition at the Robin Rice Galler
 OPENING RECEPTION:  Thursday, February 13th, 6 PM- 9 PM, 2020

ARTIST TALK: Friday, September February 14th, 6 PM- 8 PM, 2020
“In Dialogue with Al Díaz”, Moderated by Carlo McCormick*

porttraT-ALAL DÍAZ is best known for his friendship with Jean-Michel Basquiat and collaboration on SAMO©…, a well-known graffiti project appearing in lower Manhattan from 1978 to 1980. The tag and text slogans became known quickly on the streets and in the local newspaper media because of their wit and sardon
 Davidson Gallery presents Under a Concrete Sky, an exhibition of work from acclaimed painter Purvis Young. The show title references the Miami neighborhood of Overtown, a predominantly black, low-income neighborhood where Young lived, worked, and was a community fixture until his death in 2010. So named for the interstate that was constructed over the area in the 1960s, Overtown was as important to Young as he was to his neighborhood. It is impossible to separate the artist from the district – d
 Destruktion is a project presenting painting, sculpture, and artist books by Alberto Alejandro Rodríguez all centered on the different forms that ruins can take in modern society. Not simply as partially or completely destroyed architecture but as a changing structure woven into the urban fabric, a byproduct of indifference as humans reflexively think and interact with the space around them. The series of works in Destruktion highlight the consequences for today’s society, both negative from a p
 Higher Pictures is pleased to present Revisiting Nicaragua 1978–1979, Susan Meiselas’ second solo exhibition with the gallery. The exhibition presents Meiselas’ iconic photographs of the Nicaraguan popular insurrection in the context of current civil resistance in the country.

Meiselas was one of very few American photographers to bear witness to the revolution in Nicaragua, which culminated in 1979 with the Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) overthrowing the forty-year dictatorship 
 Sargent’s Daughters is pleased to present Power Play, Sarah Slappey’s first solo exhibition with the gallery.  Comprised of oil paintings on canvas and paper, Slappey addresses the female form in a palette of muted pinks, purples and slashes of vibrant red.

 

 

Slappey’s forms are both seductive and grotesque- an embrace of femininity and a rejection of its limits that addresses how it feels to be in a female body. The undulating and twisting forms push our notions of the “acceptable” f
 This exhibition focuses on a group of Mexican artists that lived and worked in the US as well as American artists that resided in Mexico from the beginning of the twentieth century to the present in order to dwell on the transnational character of their productions. By including works produced in the last century, the aim is to emphasize the continuity of this condition, creative exchanges, and circulation of ideas beyond borders. The transnational character of these works gives them a certain s
 Timothy Taylor is pleased to present Cave Continuum, the first New York exhibition of London-based artist Daniel Crews-Chubb. Crews-Chubb (b. 1984) is known for large-scale paintings that mine the legacies of Art Brut, Arte Povera, and Abstract- Expressionism, and interrogate symbols and archetypes of art history. The paintings in Cave Continuum anticipate a major new public artwork by Crews-Chubb commissioned by English Heritage for Wellington Arch, London, which will be unveiled in April 2020 
 Living Organism: An installation that is both aural and visual. 

Based on a series of improvisations, we develop movement sequences and noises that exist to create the ecosystem of our immersive environment. We transform the space, changing perspectives with a quality of softness over and around us.

As spiders webbing over existing webs, we build up our surroundings with tape, saran wrap, thread, and violins. It is a sticky and woven landscape of man made materials, that morph into organic
 Transmitter presents:

Making the Cut

Aruni Dharmakirthi • Leeza Meksin • Dionis Ortiz • Christa Pratt • Padma Rajendran • Ruth Rodriguez • Diane Zhou

February 14 – March 22, 2020
Opening Reception: Friday, February 14, 6–9 PM

Transmitter is pleased to present Making the Cut, a group exhibition focused on abstracted representations of the human body using textiles and other found materials. The artists included employ items such as cut fabric, vinyl tile, or domestic objects to repre
 David Mann: Before Our Eyes
February 13 – March 21, 2020
Opening Reception: Thursday, February 13th, 6-8 PM

 
Margaret Thatcher Projects is pleased to present a series of new abstract paintings by David Mann to commence the gallery’s 2020 Spring programming. In his second solo show at the gallery, Mann focuses on themes of galactic and oceanic light, transparency and opacity of space, and the illusion of time. The works in the exhibition ranging from the monochromatic 12 x 12-inch square H
 This presentation of "Hills and Clouds" follows the work’s debut in the outdoor environs of Storm King Art Center in 2015, where the phosphorescent pigment that Benglis used to create the sculpture transformed it into a glowing spectral presence each evening after darkness fell. Benglis created "Hills and Clouds" using cast polyurethane, phosphorescent pigment, and stainless steel. Benglis, who created her first phosphorescent piece in 1971, has long been intrigued by natural phosphorescence, wh